This probably seems like a very complicated software repository, but it has one clear mission: 

Identifying subsets of classes (from ontologies like EnvO) that can be used to fill in MIxS'
environmental context questions (env_broad_scale, env_local_scale, env_medium) 
within the constraints of a MIxS environmental extension (like Soil, Water, BuiltEnvironment, etc.).

This repo provides
- a schema that defines the acceptable style for the mappings
- example data that adheres to the schema
- a project.Makefile that illustrates how to generate some supporting evidence
- example OAK queries and their results
- SPARQL queries that can be used to generate mappings
- SPARQL results that have been generated by the queries
- the output from asking large language models to solve this problem, having been prompted with the resources above

Who can contribute to the subset mappings? Just LLMs? No! This repo is designed to drive a consensus building process.

Anyone can contribute subset mappings by adding to the designated files (which haven't been specified yet). 
There are supported YAML, JSON and long table formats.

We are in the process of developing a wide table format. It will require combining some fields together, 
like agent plus timestamp to form per-batch columns, and confidence plus comment to form cell values.

Human curators must follow all the rules in the schema, but al also expected to follow some conventions that are not enforced yet.

The LLM comments are not good examples of what the comment field is really intended for.

Here is the intended lifecycle for this repo and it's mappings:
- Seed with OAK, SPARQL or LLM mappings
- Allow human curators to add mappings at any time
- Use the OAK, SPARQL and human mappings to prompt LLMs to identify patterns, gaps, visualizations, etc. Possibly even more powerful OAK or SPARQL queries.